The Computer Science Program
Programming Assignments and the Honor Code

Students' work on programming assignments is covered 
by the Honor Code unless a professor makes a contrary 
stipulation to his or her entire class.  This document 
addresses questions students have asked about how they 
may get help while they are programming without 
violating the Code.  There are many sources of help for 
students working on programming assignments: 1) 
books, journals and documents which are available 
electronically, 2) fellow students and random other people,
3) departmentally designated undergraduate programming 
consultants or grading assistants, and 4) professors.

Books, etc.  Copying or paraphrasing programs or 
program fragments from these sources is permitted 
under the Honor Code provided each instance of 
copying or paraphrasing is documented with a proper 
bibliographic reference.  Of course, if a professor 
stipulates that copying and paraphrasing is not allowed 
on a particular assignment, then copying and 
paraphrasing on that assignment would violate the 
Honor Code.

Fellow Students and other people not included as 
professors at Holy Cross or teaching assistants 
covered in the following two sections.  Students 
may ask other students (i.e. other people) only those 
kinds of questions for which answers might be found 
in documentation or manuals.  A student may ask, "What 
does 'this error' mean?"  But the student may not ask 
"Why did I get 'this error' when I ran this program 
on this data?"  Students may not describe algorithms 
to other students in the context of working on 
programming assignments.  In general a student (or other 
person) may not communicate to another student any 
segment of code for purposes of giving or receiving 
help.  Students (and other people) may never write 
code for other students.


Teaching/Grading Assistants.  These consultants are 
available only when they are on duty during designated 
lab times.  The consultants may, of course, respond to 
questions which may be answered by any fellow student 
(see Fellow Students above).  In addition, while they are 
at work in or near the lab, the consultants may:

--	discuss basic requirements for an assignment such 
	as the specific tasks to be accomplished, the 
	specific output required, and specific language 
	features to be used;

--	teach and explain syntax and the use of specific 
	language statements and features in a context 
	outside that of the assignment on which the 
	questioner is working;

--	interpret compile-time and run-time errors;

--	help a student to trace the execution of a program 
	or program segment;

--	provide debugging aids or instruct the student in 
	the use of the debugger;

--	provide 1,0 statements to be placed in the 
	student's code for debugging needs.

Consultants must approach requests to develop specific 
algorithms, write specific code, or repair faulty 
algorithms or code, with the greatest caution.  
Consultants should attempt to draw responses from 
students rather than provide responses themselves.

Professors.  A professor at Holy Cross may provide whatever 
assistance she or he deems appropriate.
